\input texinfo
@setfilename censorius
@settitle Censorius Herald Manual
@documentencoding UTF-8
@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 2014-2015, Bruce-Robert Pocock.

This edition was typeset @today{}.
@end copying

@setchapternewpage odd

@documentdescription
This manual describes  how to operate the Censorius  Herald software for
Festival management functions. It is intended for Festival staff members.
@end documentdescription

@dircategory Productivity
@direntry
Censorius Herald is an application suite for managing festivals or events.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title Censorius Herald 
@subtitle Festival Operators' Manual
@author Bruce-Robert Fenn Pocock

@page

@vskip 0pt plus 1filll

@insertcopying



@end titlepage

@headings double

@ifplaintext
@insertcopying
@end ifplaintext


@shortcontents
@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top, Introduction, (dir), (dir)
@top Censorius Herald Manual

@menu
* Introduction::
* Setting Up::
* Registration::
* Workshops::
* Vendors::
* Handbook Generation::
* Staffing::
* Inventory::
* Providing Support::
* How to Register::
* How to Amend a Registration::
* Index::
@end menu
@end ifnottex

@node Introduction, Setting Up, Top, Top
@unnumbered Introduction

Censorius Herald  is an application  suite that manages  the Information
Systems needs  of an event  or festival. It's being  developed primarily
for Temple of Earth Gathering, but  could be used by other organizations
in the future.

This  manual  is  not  yet  ``publication ready;''  it,  like  parts  of
Censorius Herald, is a work-in-progress.

@node Operators Manual Part, Setting Up, Introduction, Top
@part Operators' Manual

@node Setting Up, Registration, Introduction, Top
@chapter Setting Up

TODO. Right  now, I manually  am setting up TEG  and there isn't  a nice
front-end. Check out the source code. 


@menu
* Adding Festivals::
* Privileged Staff::
@end menu

@node Adding Festivals, Privileged Staff, Setting Up, Setting Up
@section Adding Festivals

Herald will allow you to manage (primarily) your next upcoming festival.
Each festival has a name, a year, and the dates on which it will occur.

Currently,  these  have  to  be manually  injected  into  the  database.
A management interface is needed. TODO


@node Privileged Staff,  , Adding Festivals, Setting Up
@section Privileged Staff


@menu
* Overseers::
* Operators::
* Registrar::
* Check-In Valet::
* Vendor Concierge::
* Workshop Facilitator::
@end menu

@node Overseers, Operators, Privileged Staff, Privileged Staff
@subsection Overseer

Management staff  who have full  access. Overseer actions  are verified,
unlike Operators.

@node Operators, Registrar, Overseers, Privileged Staff
@subsection Operator
Operators have unfettered access to the system.

@node Registrar, Check-In Valet, Operators, Privileged Staff
@subsection Registrar

@node Check-In Valet, Vendor Concierge, Registrar, Privileged Staff
@subsection Check-In Valet

The staff working at your  on-site check-in desk will typically have
Valet level of access. They can review some information, but may require
a Registrar to access arbitrary records.

@node Vendor Concierge, Workshop Facilitator, Check-In Valet, Privileged Staff
@subsection Vendor Lugal & Concierge

@node Workshop Facilitator,  , Vendor Concierge, Privileged Staff
@subsection Workshop Lugal & Facilitator

@node Registration, Workshops, Setting Up, Top
@chapter Registration

@menu
* Effects of a Registration::
* Parts of a Registration::
* Registration Staff Access::
@end menu



@node  Effects of a Registration, Parts of a Registration, Registration, Registration
@section Effects of a Registration

Each  party  who  registers  will  create  an  invoice  in  the  system.
Depending on their selections, a bill will be added to that invoice.

For  our purposes,  each  invoice has  a string  of  bills or  payments.
Bills  are added  when the  registration is  made; a  billed amount  has
a  negative dollar  value. Payments  include literal  payments made  via
PayPal, or adjustments entered by Registration staff. 

In theory, Registration staff could make a negative adjustment (that is:
increase  the amount  due) manually.  In practice,  this would  normally
imply that you should edit the registration itself.

The ``leader''  of a party is  the first adult  in the party who  has an
e-mail address supplied. The party's leader will be:

@enumerate
@item
informed of  the invoice  being created  (initial billing)  during their
registration process;
@item
informed when the invoice is closed out (payment or credit);
@item
able to return to edit their  Registration by voiding or adding items in
future (TODO, this does not work 100% yet)
@end enumerate


@node  Parts of a Registration, Registration Staff Access, Effects of a Registration, Registration
@section Parts of a Registration

The registration  consists of  a number  of people  in the  party, their
eating and  sleeping arrangements  selections, and  optional merchandise
and  donation (scholarship  funds) amounts,  as well  as the  associated
invoice of billing and payments (typically, one of each).

@node Registration Staff Access,  , Parts of a Registration, Registration
@section Registration Staff Access
The Registration team can provide  privileged access to the invoices for
every guest registration to a limited list of people.

Note that the system operators will also have full access.


@menu
* Signing In::
* Searching for an Invoice::
* Historical Invoices::
* Entering an Adjustment::
* Entering a Fully-Comped Invoice::
@end menu

@node Signing In, Searching for an Invoice, Registration Staff Access, Registration Staff Access
@subsection Signing In
WRITEME

@node Searching for an Invoice, Historical Invoices, Signing In, Registration Staff Access
@subsection Searching for an Invoice

There are several ways to call up an invoice:

@menu
* Known Invoice Number::
* Party Member's Name::
* Payment Reference ::
* Notes::
* Payment Amount and Date::
* Card Number?::
@end menu

@node Known Invoice Number, Party Member's Name, Searching for an Invoice, Searching for an Invoice
@subsubsection Known Invoice Number

If  you know  the invoice  number, you  can key  it in  here. The  saved
invoice will open.

If the invoice was created in Herald for a future festival, you can make
adjustments to it.

@node Party Member's Name, Payment Reference , Known Invoice Number, Searching for an Invoice
@subsubsection Party Member's Name


@node Payment Reference , Notes, Party Member's Name, Searching for an Invoice
@subsubsection Payment Reference 

@node Notes, Payment Amount and Date, Payment Reference , Searching for an Invoice
@subsubsection Notes

Search notes from the person registering or comments associated with any
payment or adjustment.

@node Payment Amount and Date, Card Number?, Notes, Searching for an Invoice
@subsubsection Payment Amount and Date

@node Card Number?,  , Payment Amount and Date, Searching for an Invoice
@subsubsection Card Number?

Note that we never receive  anyone's credit-card numbers; PayPal handles
that part for us. There will never be any reason for anyone on our staff
to ask  for a card  number, and we cannot  discover what card  was used.
In the same way, we can't tell what payment was made from a card number.


@node Historical Invoices, , Searching for an Invoice, Registration Staff Access
@subsection Historical Invoices

TODO. Historical invoices  from the legacy TEG  registration system will
be imported as time permits; but this has not been done yet.

These invoices may be less complete or accurate than current invoices.

@node Entering an Adjustment, , Historical Invoices, Registration Staff Access
@subsection Entering an Adjustment

How do I enter an adjustment?

@enumerate
@item
First, recall the invoice's ``face  sheet'' (the ``white page''). At the
top, you'll  see the invoice  number, the names  of the guests,  and the
admin key. Below  this, comes a summary of the  invoice, which ends with
the balance of payments.
@item
Check the payment history to be sure that the invoice is not yet closed.
If  the  invoice has  been  closed,  contact  the operator  for  special
handling -- this will be a special case.
@item
From the ``white page,'' click the adjustment link (in the upper area).
@item
Enter the invoice number (without commas)
@item
Enter the admin key. This may contain punctuation, and is usually around
6 characters long. (Capital vs. lower-case letters are significant.)
@item
Choose  whether the  adjustment is  to be  a credit  or debit.  A credit
adjustment @emph{reduces}  the amount that  the guest will need  to pay.
For example, if a  guest is receiving a $40 admission  rather than a $95
admission,  you   might  enter   a  $55   credit.  A   debit  adjustment
@emph{increases} the  amount a guest must  pay. For example, if  a guest
were being charged an extra $100  for a golf-cart rental, you might need
to enter a  debit adjustment. This might also occur  if someone paid for
a staff registration, but then subsequently left the staff.
@item
Enter the adjustment amount. Please do @emph{not} enter anything but the
dollar  amount   in  digits.  For  example:   @t{1502}  or  @t{1792.12}.
In particular, don't enter a @t{-}  (minus sign); select credit or debit
to indicate the ``sign'' of the adjustment.
@item
Enter a  meaningful note. This note  will be e-mailed to  the registrar,
and will be visible on the guest's invoice, so please be both reasonably
detailed  and  consider  that  the  guest  will  be  able  to  see  your
note's text.
@item
Click the big, friendly button to submit your adjustment.
@end enumerate

If your  adjustment brings  the balance  due to  zero, the  invoice will
automatically be closed out, and e-mail the guest their final itinerary.

Otherwise, you should (manually) send a note back to the guest to inform
them that the adjustment has been entered, and invite them to make their
payment of the balance due on-line.

TODO: A  nice mechanism to  send the ``balance  due'' bill to  the guest
will be forthcoming. In the mean  time, unfortunately, you'll have to do
it yourself.

@node Entering a Fully-Comped Invoice,  , Entering an Adjustment, Registration Staff Access
@subsection Entering a Fully-Comped Invoice

If a guests's ticket is fully  compensated (there are no items for which
the guest is expected to enter a payment), there is not yet a simple way
to close their invoice out.

Instead, we'll have to ``work around'' the system a little bit:

@enumerate
@item
First:  enter a  debit adjustment  for  any amount;  say, $1.  (Invoice,
admin key, DEBIT, and 1) with a note like ``comp invoice.''
@item
Then, enter  a balancing credit adjustment  for the same amount  with an
appropriate note.
@end enumerate

By ``bumping''  the invoice like this,  the balance will re-set  to zero
and the invoice will automatically be closed out.

@node
@subsection Re-opening a Closed Invoice

This requires manual intervention by the Operator for now. TODO

@node Workshops, Vendors, Registration, Top
@chapter Workshops and Events
WRITEME

@menu
* Adding Events::
* Presenter Details::
* Venues::
* Approving and Scheduling Workshops::
* Reviewing Schedule::
@end menu
 Adding Events
@node Adding Events, Presenter Details, Workshops, Workshops
@section Adding Events

@node Presenter Details, Venues, Adding Events, Workshops
@section Presenter Details

@node Venues, Approving and Scheduling Workshops, Presenter Details, Workshops
@section Venues

@node  Approving and Scheduling Workshops, Reviewing Schedule, Venues, Workshops
@section Approving and Scheduling Workshops


@node Reviewing Schedule,  , Approving and Scheduling Workshops, Workshops
@section Reviewing Schedule

@node Vendors, Handbook Generation, Workshops, Top
@chapter Vendors

WRITEME

@node Handbook Generation, Staffing, Vendors, Top
@chapter Handbook Generation

WRITEME

@menu
* Static Sections::
* HTML Version::
* WiFi Captive Hotspot::
* Alignment and Finishing::
@end menu

@node Static Sections, HTML Version, Handbook Generation, Handbook Generation
@section Static Sections

@node HTML Version, WiFi Captive Hotspot, Static Sections, Handbook Generation
@section HTML Version

@node WiFi Captive Hotspot, Alignment and Finishing, HTML Version, Handbook Generation
@section WiFi Captive Hotspot

@menu
* Hardware::
* Software::
* Deployment::
@end menu

@node Hardware, Deployment, WiFi Captive Hotspot, WiFi Captive Hotspot
@subsection Hotspot Hardware
@node Software, Deployment, Hardware, WiFi Captive Hotspot
@subsection Hotspot Software

@node  Deployment,  , Software, WiFi Captive Hotspot
@subsection Hotspot Deployment



@node Alignment and Finishing,  , WiFi Captive Hotspot, Handbook Generation
@section Alignment and Finishing

@node Staffing, Inventory, Handbook Generation, Top
@chapter Staffing

@menu
* Accepting Staff Applications::
* Manually Adding Staff::
* Assigning Staff Positions::
* Divisions and Departments::
@end menu

@node  Accepting Staff Applications, Manually Adding Staff, Staffing, Staffing
@section Accepting Staff Applications

@node Manually Adding Staff, Assigning Staff Positions, Accepting Staff Applications, Staffing
@section Manually Adding Staff

@node Assigning Staff Positions, Divisions and Departments, Manually Adding Staff, Staffing
@section Assigning Staff Positions

@node Divisions and Departments,  , Assigning Staff Positions, Staffing
@section Divisions and Departments


@node Inventory, Providing Support, Staffing, Top
@chapter Inventory

@menu
* Merchandise::
* Property::
@end menu

WRITEME

@node Merchandise, Property, Inventory, Inventory
@section Merchandise

@menu
* Prices::
* Sales Reports::
@end menu

@node  Prices, Sales Reports, Merchandise, Merchandise
@subsection Prices

Right now prices are being manually injected into the database. TODO.

Prices  have  date   ranges,  so  they  can  be  edited   to  change  on
certain  dates. Note  that the  prices  apply when  the registration  is
calculated.

TODO, we need to ensure that someone can't ``sit on'' a registration and
keep lower prices into the future.


@node Sales Reports,  , Prices, Merchandise
@subsection Sales Reports

@node Property,  , Merchandise, Inventory
@section Property

@menu
* Resource Planning::
* Reconciliation::
* Reporting::
@end menu

@node Resource Planning, Reconciliation, Property, Property
@subsection Resource Planning

@node Reconciliation, Reporting, Resource Planning, Property
@subsection Reconciliation

@node Reporting,  , Reconciliation, Property
@subsection Reporting

@node Public Access, Providing Support, Inventory, Top
@part Public Access

@node Providing Support, How to Register, Inventory, Top
@unnumbered Providing Support

This part of the  manual will explain the process as  it relates to your
festivals'  guests. You  can use  it to  provide them  with support,  or
discover how to handle unusual situations.

@node How to Register, How to Amend a Registration, Providing Support, Top
@chapter How to Register

@node How to Amend a Registration, Index, How to Register, Top
@chapter How to Amend a Registration

@part Index

@node Index,  , How to Amend a Registration, Top
@unnumbered Index
@printindex cp

@bye 
